talks-articles/README.md, before:

```ASCII
                        ~'~`\/@
                      ~\\\\\\\\\\\
                    ~@\\\\\\\\\\\\\
     ,-,-,           |C>   // )\\\\|
   ,',','|          /    || ,'/////|
 ,-,','  |         (,    @@   /////
 | ||    |          //  @@@|//''''|
 | ||TUT |           @@@@@@|     _|
_| ||.AS.|______      @@@@@\____/ \
 | ||CODE|     ,|         _/_____/ \
 | ||  ,'    ,' |        /          |
 | ||,[]   ,'   |       |         \  |
 |_|/    ,'     |      /           | |
_______,'      ,',_____|      |    | |
       |     ,','      |      |    | |
       |   ,','    ____|_____/    /  |
       | ,','  __/ |             /   |
_______|','   ///_/-------------/   |
        |===========,'

```

## Talks-Articles Group

> this section contains code or markdown format quick notes to revise on material already referred in form of tech talks, articles, podcasts and other

---

#### [languages-n-runtimes](./languages-n-runtimes)
> [golang](./languages-n-runtimes/golang), [python](./languages-n-runtimes/python), [ruby](./languages-n-runtimes/ruby),
> [erlang](./languages-n-runtimes/erlang), [elixir](./languages-n-runtimes/elixir), [haskell](./languages-n-runtimes/haskell),
> [rust](./languages-n-runtimes/rust), [julia](./languages-n-runtimes/julia-lang/README.md), [clojure](./languages-n-runtimes/clojure),
> [jvm-n-java](./languages-n-runtimes/jvm-n-java), [javascript](./languages-n-runtimes/javascript), [ballerina](./languages-n-runtimes/ballerina),
> [nim](./languages-n-runtimes/nim/README.md), [racket](./languages-n-runtimes/racket/README.md), [typescript](./languages-n-runtimes/typescript/README.md),
> [nodejs](./languages-n-runtimes/nodejs), [R](./languages-n-runtimes/R-lang), [scala](./languages-n-runtimes/scala), [zig](./languages-n-runtimes/zig/README.md)
>
> [TLA+](./languages-n-runtimes/tla-plus),
> [GraphQL](./languages-n-runtimes/graphql/README.md)
>
> build: [ant](./languages-n-runtimes/0-build/ant), [gradle](./languages-n-runtimes/0-build/gradle)
>
> debug: [gdb](./languages-n-runtimes/0-debug/gdb/README.md)

#### [frameworks](./frameworks)
> [Phoenix](./frameworks/phoenix),
> [Flutter](./frameworks/flutter), [React](./frameworks/react),
> [GatsbyJS](./frameworks/gatsbyjs)
> [Spin](./frameworks/spin)

#### [virtualization](./virtualization)
> [aws](./virtualization/aws), [docker](./virtualization/docker), [kuberentes](./virtualization/kuberentes), [kvm](./virtualization/kvm), [podman](./virtualization/podman)

#### [devops-toolbox](./devops-toolbox)
> [ansible](./devops-toolbox/ansible), [chef](./devops-toolbox/chef), [puppet](./devops-toolbox/puppet)

#### [www](./www)
> [webaudio](./www/webaudio),
> [angularjs](./www/angularjs), [materialize](./www/materializecss), [html5 devconf 2013](./www/HTML5DevConf-2013),
> [polymer](./www/polymer), [shadowDOM](./www/shadowDOM), [webrtc-photobooth](./www/webrtc-photobooth),
> [misc](./www/README.md)

#### [datacenters](./datacenters)
> [misc](./datacenters/README.md)

#### [dataengines](./dataengines)
> [kafka](./dataengines/kafka), [spark](./dataengines/spark),
> [misc](./dataengines/README.md)

#### [datastores](./datastores)
> [mysql](./datastores/mysql), [postgresql](./datastores/postgresql), [redis](./datastores/redis/README.md), [elasticsearch](./datastores/elasticsearch),
> [cayley](./datastores/cayley), [cockroachdb](./datastores/cockroachdb), [crate](./datastores/crate), [druid](./datastores/druid),
> [gundb](./datastores/gundb), [influxdata](./datastores/influxdata), [rethinkdb](./datastores/rethinkdb), [rrdtool](./datastores/rrdtool),
> [genre-timeseries](./datastores/genre-timeseries)

#### [dataviz](./dataviz)
> [d3js](./dataviz/d3js), [raphaeljs](./dataviz/raphaeljs)

#### [frameworks](./frameworks/README.md)
> [flutter](./frameworks/flutter), [react](./frameworks/react/README.md),
> [phoenix](./frameworks/phoenix)

#### [google](./google)
> [google-cloud-platform](./google/google-cloud-platform), [gmail-api-email-access](./google/gmail-api-email-access)

#### [hacks](./hacks)
> [misc](hacks/README.md)

#### [hashicorp](./hashicorp)

#### [how-it-works](./how-it-works)

#### [ibm](./ibm)

#### [id.e.ditor](./id.e.ditor)

#### [lb-proxy](./lb-proxy)

#### [machine-learning](./machine-learning/README.md)
> *toolbox*: [rasa](./machine-learning/toolbox/rasa/README.md),
> [tensorflow](./machine-learning/toolbox/tensorflow), [torch/pytorch](./machine-learning/toolbox/torch),
> [caffe2](./machine-learning/toolbox/caffe2/README.md), [NumPy](./machine-learning/toolbox/numpy/README.md),
> [ml5.js](./machine-learning/toolbox/ml5.js/README.md),
>
> [more ML](./machine-learning/README.md)

#### [metrics](./metrics)
> [sysdig](./metrics/sysdig)

#### [observability](./observability)
> [eBPF](./observability/eBPF/README.md)

#### [network](./network)
> [sdn](./network/sdn)

#### [operating-systems](./operating-systems)
> [OS concepts](./concepts-chapter), [coreos](./operating-systems/coreos), [..linux](./operating-systems/linux)

#### [reference](./reference)

#### [scm](./scm)
> [git](./scm/git), [svn](./scm/svn)

#### [secure](./secure)
> [misc](./secure/README.md)

#### [self](./self)

---

Commit message:

[rust] comprehensive-rust section: stdlib traits & exercise rot13
Signed-off-by: AbhishekKr <abhikumar163@gmail.com>

talks-articles/README.md, after:

```ASCII
                       .~'~`@/@
                      ~\\\\\\\\\@\        Tech tutorials' content from
                    ~@\\\\\\\\\\\\\         video, articles, projects, etc.
     ,-,-,           |C>   // )\\\\;        mostly tried as code samples..
   ,',','|          /    || ,'/////,        sometimes as TL;DR wikis.
 ,-,','  |         (,    @@   /////
 | ||    |          ##  @@@|//''''|
 | ||TUT |           @@@@@@|     _|
_| ||.AS.|______,     @@@@@\____/ \
 | ||CODE|     ,|         _/_____/ \
 | ||  ,'    ,' |        /          |
 | ||,'@'  ,'   |       |         \  |
 |_|/    ,'     |      /           | |
_______,'      ,',_____|      |    | |
       |     ,','      |      |    | |
       |   ,','    ____|_____/    /  |
       | ,','  __/ |             /   |
_______|','   ///_/-------------/   |
        |===========,'

```

## Talks-Articles Group

> this section contains code or markdown format quick notes to revise on material already referred in form of tech talks, articles, podcasts and other

---

#### [languages-n-runtimes](./languages-n-runtimes)
> [golang](./languages-n-runtimes/golang), [python](./languages-n-runtimes/python), [ruby](./languages-n-runtimes/ruby),
> [erlang](./languages-n-runtimes/erlang), [elixir](./languages-n-runtimes/elixir), [haskell](./languages-n-runtimes/haskell),
> [rust](./languages-n-runtimes/rust), [julia](./languages-n-runtimes/julia-lang/README.md), [clojure](./languages-n-runtimes/clojure),
> [jvm-n-java](./languages-n-runtimes/jvm-n-java), [javascript](./languages-n-runtimes/javascript), [ballerina](./languages-n-runtimes/ballerina),
> [nim](./languages-n-runtimes/nim/README.md), [racket](./languages-n-runtimes/racket/README.md), [typescript](./languages-n-runtimes/typescript/README.md),
> [nodejs](./languages-n-runtimes/nodejs), [R](./languages-n-runtimes/R-lang), [scala](./languages-n-runtimes/scala), [zig](./languages-n-runtimes/zig/README.md)
>
> [TLA+](./languages-n-runtimes/tla-plus),
> [GraphQL](./languages-n-runtimes/graphql/README.md)
>
> build: [ant](./languages-n-runtimes/0-build/ant), [gradle](./languages-n-runtimes/0-build/gradle)
>
> debug: [gdb](./languages-n-runtimes/0-debug/gdb/README.md)

#### [frameworks](./frameworks)
> [Phoenix](./frameworks/phoenix),
> [Flutter](./frameworks/flutter), [React](./frameworks/react),
> [GatsbyJS](./frameworks/gatsbyjs),
> [Spin](./frameworks/spin)

#### [virtualization](./virtualization)
> [aws](./virtualization/aws), [docker](./virtualization/docker), [kuberentes](./virtualization/kuberentes), [kvm](./virtualization/kvm), [podman](./virtualization/podman)

#### [devops-toolbox](./devops-toolbox)
> [ansible](./devops-toolbox/ansible), [chef](./devops-toolbox/chef), [puppet](./devops-toolbox/puppet)

#### [www](./www)
> [webaudio](./www/webaudio),
> [angularjs](./www/angularjs), [materialize](./www/materializecss), [html5 devconf 2013](./www/HTML5DevConf-2013),
> [polymer](./www/polymer), [shadowDOM](./www/shadowDOM), [webrtc-photobooth](./www/webrtc-photobooth),
> [misc](./www/README.md)

#### [datacenters](./datacenters)
> [misc](./datacenters/README.md)

#### [dataengines](./dataengines)
> [kafka](./dataengines/kafka), [spark](./dataengines/spark),
> [misc](./dataengines/README.md)

#### [datastores](./datastores)
> [mysql](./datastores/mysql), [postgresql](./datastores/postgresql), [redis](./datastores/redis/README.md), [elasticsearch](./datastores/elasticsearch),
> [cayley](./datastores/cayley), [cockroachdb](./datastores/cockroachdb), [crate](./datastores/crate), [druid](./datastores/druid),
> [gundb](./datastores/gundb), [influxdata](./datastores/influxdata), [rethinkdb](./datastores/rethinkdb), [rrdtool](./datastores/rrdtool),
> [genre-timeseries](./datastores/genre-timeseries)

#### [dataviz](./dataviz)
> [d3js](./dataviz/d3js), [raphaeljs](./dataviz/raphaeljs)

#### [frameworks](./frameworks/README.md)
> [flutter](./frameworks/flutter), [react](./frameworks/react/README.md),
> [phoenix](./frameworks/phoenix)

#### [google](./google)
> [GCP](./google/google-cloud-platform), [GMail API](./google/gmail-api-email-access)

#### [hacks](./hacks)
> [misc](hacks/README.md)

#### [hashicorp](./hashicorp)

#### [how-it-works](./how-it-works)

#### [ibm](./ibm)

#### [id.e.ditor](./id.e.ditor)

#### [lb-proxy](./lb-proxy)

#### [machine-learning](./machine-learning/README.md)
> *toolbox*: [rasa](./machine-learning/toolbox/rasa/README.md),
> [tensorflow](./machine-learning/toolbox/tensorflow), [torch/pytorch](./machine-learning/toolbox/torch),
> [caffe2](./machine-learning/toolbox/caffe2/README.md), [NumPy](./machine-learning/toolbox/numpy/README.md),
> [ml5.js](./machine-learning/toolbox/ml5.js/README.md),
>
> [more ML](./machine-learning/README.md)

#### [metrics](./metrics)
> [sysdig](./metrics/sysdig)

#### [observability](./observability)
> [eBPF](./observability/eBPF/README.md)

#### [network](./network)
> [sdn](./network/sdn)

#### [operating-systems](./operating-systems)
> [OS concepts](./concepts-chapter), [coreos](./operating-systems/coreos), [..linux](./operating-systems/linux)

#### [reference](./reference)

#### [scm](./scm)
> [git](./scm/git), [svn](./scm/svn)

#### [secure](./secure)
> [misc](./secure/README.md)

#### [self](./self)

---
